Time for some alternative syntax.
There's nothing wrong with the way we provided our packages or our data thus far, but I'm always a
fan of showing you alternative ways of doing something.
For example, here in the main dart file, we're having our change notify our provider where we need
to provide a builder method.
And this then actually.
Runs this function, gets a context, returns the data we want to provide.
If that data does not depend on the context as we do here, it's kind of redundant to get that.
Of course, you can then use an underscore to signal that you're not interested in it, but actually
you're also seen as a shortcut or an alternative constructor for a change notifier provider, which
you could use, and that is the dot value constructor instead of a builder.
This simply takes a value argument and that is the value you want to provide.
And if your value doesn't depend on the context, you can absolutely use this instead of the builder
method.
And of course, it's the same here in product script where I have the.
Change notifier provider with the builder function.
You can use that, but you can also use the value constructor of change notifier provider and simply
provide a value which in our case here is that single product.
And if you do that and you do a full refresh here.
Of course, you see, it still works as before, but now it's a bit shorter.
So that's option number one, which makes sense if you are not really using the context.
Now there actually is an important difference between change notifier provider dot value and the approach
we had before with the builder function distort value approach.
Here is the right approach you should use if you for example, use a provider on something that's part
of a list or of a grid.
Because of the issue I described in the last lecture where widgets are recycled by flutter.
But the data that's attached to the widget changes when using change notifier provider value, you actually
make sure that the provider works, even if data changes for the widget.
If you had a builder function that would not work correctly here it will work correctly because now
the provider is tied to its data and is attached and detached to and from the widget instead of changing
data being attached to the same provider.
So this dot value constructor syntax is the approach you should use in this scenario here.
And in all scenarios where you have the provider package and you're providing your data on single list
or grid items where Flutter then actually will recycle the widgets you're attaching your provider to.
With this dot value constructor approach that will work without issues with the builder function we
used before that would cause bugs.
As soon as you have more items that do actually go beyond the screen boundaries because of the way widgets
are recycled and your data changes and your provider wouldn't keep up with that, the dot value constructor
will keep up with that.
That's just a little side note.
Now, one other important note about change notifier provider, also with the dot value approach here
in main DART where I'm also using this.
Here.
There, it's actually the better approach to not use this way of providing this products value.
But instead here you should use that old approach of having the create or the builder method where you
then get your context and create products like this.
Why?
Because whenever you instantiate a class.
So whenever you create a new object based on a class, as we're doing it here, if you do that to provide
data, object to the change notifier provider, you should use the create method for efficiency and
to avoid bugs.
Whenever you reuse an existing object like we're doing it in the grid where we cycle through a list
of products which already all exist.
It's recommended that you use that value approach.
So if the dot value constructor now, it would also work if we would use the dot value constructor here
in main art.
It just might be a little bit less efficient and maybe lead to unnecessary renders or in some apps that
might be buggy.
Therefore, when you create a new instance of object and you want to provide this, use the create or
the builder method as I'm doing it here in main art.
Now if you reuse an existing object like we're doing it in the product script, you should use the dot
value provider with the value you're providing as we're doing it here.
Now over the next lectures, you actually see that I, in the main art file, still use the dot value
provider.
So the one I told you is not the best possible way of doing it because it won't hurt this application.
Just because it's not the best possible way does not mean that it doesn't work, that it crashes your
app or that it's super inefficient.
I just want to tell you this best practice which emerged since I recorded the course so that you're
aware of it, you could also use the other approach, which I'm going to use over the next lectures.
But using create if you are creating a new instance is recommended.
There's another important thing.
If we navigate to a totally different screen and with that, I don't mean the detailed screen which
is pushed on top of the red screen, but if we had tabs or if we used push replacement and we had a
screen that replaces the old screen, then it's important that we clean up our provided data flatter
automatically for you, cleans up all the widgets it built so that they don't take up space in memory
anymore.
But your provided data would still end up in memory.
And that would be bad because the more often you then visit and leave that page, the more data is stored
in memory, and that leads to memory leaks where your memory will at some point overflow.
So it's important that you dispose of the data you are storing here and here.
The good thing is change notifier provider, no matter if you use it with the value constructor or not,
automatically cleans up that data for you when it's not required anymore.
So you don't have to worry about that.
It's just important to be aware of that because maybe you didn't think about that.
And actually that would be pretty normal at this point that you don't think about this.
But if you ever come to that point, you think, Well, what's happening to my old data?
No worries.
Changed notifier provider cleans it up for you.